Column Number Enumeration
We can add an order by clause to
the query for simple enumeration.
This clause tells the database
to sort the results of the query
by the values in one or more columns.
We can use column names or
the column index in the query.
This query instructs the
database to sort the results
based on the values in the first column.
If there is at least
one column in the query,
the query is valid and the
page will render without errors.
We can submit multiple queries,
incrementing the order by clause each time
until the query generates an error,
indicating that the maximum number of
columns returned by the query in question
has been exceeded.
Remember that a query can
select all the columns in a table
or just a subset of columns.
We need to rely on this
trial-and-error approach
if we do not have access
to the source query.
Since we will need to iterate the column
number an arbitrary number of times,
we should automate the queries
with Burp Suite’s Repeater tool.
To do this, we must locate
the request we want to repeat.
Next, we will right-click on the request
and select Send to Repeater.
The request should now
show under the Repeater tab.
Notice that the request
has been URL-encoded
and displays space characters as %20.
This should not affect our query.
We can click Send to submit the query.
The response looks normal.
We can use the search box under the
Response pane to search for “Error”
and verify there are no
matches in the response body.
Next, we can increment the order_by clause
and send the query again
until we receive an error message.
The search box under the Response pane
tells us there is an
error in the response.
Since the order by clause produced
an error on the fourth iteration,
we know that the query returns
a result set containing three columns.